In this lecture we're going to go ahead and treat some really cool or neat ironwork on our book.
So we're going to create sort of some latches over here on our binding and we're going to add a gemman
to the center.
So let's go ahead and get started.
First off I'm going to add a new layer above all of my layers.
And on this layer I'm going to paint in the shape for one of my latches.
Now I want to start off with a pretty dark gray color so I'm thinking somewhere right about there I'll
hit OK then using my brush too.
I'm going to go ahead and just start painting in the shape of my latch.
I'm going to bring my brush size down quite a bit and I'm just going to start painting in the shape
of my latches.
So I want to create a curved line right along the spine just like this.
And these don't have to be perfect because these have been baned out of iron by a blacksmith.
And so there's going to be some imperfections in it.
So then the come across over to here to about that distance and then I'm going to add another curved
line over here.
So there's part of our latch on the spine of our book.
Now we want to do the latch on the top surface.
So I'm going to create two lines that are coming in towards each other like this.
And then I want to have the line that connects these two together.
That needs to be at the same angle as this line and this line and all the lines that are going in that
direction on our book.
So we don't want these to be straight like this.
We want to make sure that this line ends a little bit sooner than this one.
And then we're going to go ahead and add in a little bit more detail in here so when to add in one circuitry
here and then I'll add in a second circuitry here and just the same we want the circles to connect at
this diagonal line and not a straight up and down the line.
And then lastly I'm going to go ahead and add in a third circle right here and I'm going to go ahead
and add and a little bit of a point to that circle.
Now go ahead and fill this all in.
And you can go ahead and start adding in more detail to make this look more realistic.
Once you have your shape completely filled then you can go in there with your eraser tool and you can
go ahead and erase away some of the areas that you don't want to help shape your shape out a little
bit more.
So for example I might make that edge a little bit harder.
I'm going to make sure I'm on a hard edged brush when I do this because I don't want a soft edge on
these Eraste ones.
All right great.
Next what we want to do is we want to go ahead and add some shadow to this because even though it's
some metal they're still going to be some shadow.
So going to go ahead and add a new layer above this create clipping layer mask by holding know older
option hovering between the two and then cooking.
And then I'm going to go ahead and select a black color I'm putting my brush at 20 percent opacity on
the go ahead or painting in my shadow.
So I'm just going to slowly layer this up until I get it looking the way I want it.
So I'm going to add another layer now and I might come a little bit further back than my last layer
so I get a nice soft edge between my lighter color and my darker color.
And then I add a little bit more shadow down here at the bottom.
Then I'm to bring my brush opacity down to 20 percent so that it's even softer now.
I'm just going to soften all of these together.
All right.
Great.
Next you don't want to do is I want to add a shadow edge along the bottom edge of my shape.
So using my brush once again and bringing my brush capacity up to 30 percent I'm going to go ahead and
just paint right along the bottom edge
just so it looks a little bit more three dimensional because it has a nice shadow edge now.
Great.
It's going to zoom out.
See how that looks awesome.
Next you don't want to do is I'm noticing that is a little bit darker here in the middle.
So what I'll do is I want to go ahead and select this dark gray color right here.
Then using my Burstall and coming up to 100 percent opacity I'm going to go ahead and paint right over
the top of that to help blend that in just a little bit more.
Great.
Now we can go ahead and start adding in some of our neat detail so I'm going to go ahead and add new
layer turn that layer into a layer mask.
And this is the layer I'm going to paint all of that detail on.
So what I want to do is I first want to grab this light gray color right here and then I'm going to
use my brush tool and I'm going to paint in some design on this part right here.
And then when we get up to here we're going to switch to a lighter gray.
So bring my virtualise down because since this is at an angle all of the design here is going to be
pretty squished.
So it's going to come up like this.
And I'm just going to start painting in almost some random shapes and year.
Now obviously you want them to have some good design but I don't really have any of this planned out.
If you wanted to you could paint this out flat and then work it with the Transform Tool so it fit onto
the perspective of this part.
But in this case I'm just going to paint it on by hand because I think it will look better that way
and that will be much quicker.
So we can go ahead and add in some things like some swirls sometimes broken down like this and another
one here might have some more up here.
And we might have a dot there maybe some lines.
Want to do the same thing on the other side so it's symmetrical
are great.
Now let's go ahead and move up to this top part.
So I'm going to go ahead and select a lighter version of this color.
So somewhere about there should do.
OK.
I'm going to go ahead and continue this or any design across here.
So we're going to come all the way up and here in this area we're going to get sort of a clover type
of design.
And you'll notice that my design isn't perfect it's not completely symmetrical it's not completely perfect.
And the reason for that is because this is handcrafted by blacksmith and so it's not going to look perfect.
So it's all right if it's not you want it to look handmade.
At least I do.
So that's why I'm ok with it looking this way.
I'm going to go ahead and add some circles in on these edges.
Know go ahead and paint around these edges.
We don't want to go over that shadow edge.
We want to make sure that we stay right along those edges or in some circles in here also.
And we'll even add in sort of some flower designs within each one of these petals.
Then go ahead and atavism some circles on this part and maybe add in a circle and here it's going to
zoom out and see how that looks.
All right.
Great.
So now we have our design but it's not really looking like metal.
The reason for this is because it doesn't really have any highlights or reflections on it.
So let's go ahead and add some of those in right now.
So we'll go ahead and hold down control or command if you're on a Mac.
I'm going to let the sheep of everything on that layer that I'm go ahead and zoom in there and starting
with this lighter.
Great.
I'm going to grab an even later race so I'm going to grab a gray that's right about there maybe even
brighter than that and we'll paint at a lower opacity so we can layer up the reflection in my brush
too and bring up the brush size to quite a large size.
I want to paint at 20 percent opacity and I'm just going to go ahead and paint a line across it like
so then I'll paint another one that's a little bit wider and I'm just going to do that a few times.
So we get a nice highlight going through there.
I might even do a little bit of that over here on this tip.
And then down here we want to do the same thing.
So I'm going to go ahead and select this letter grade color that we used for just the normal design.
I'm going to paint that over here because it will appear lighter.
So when you go and paint along the bottom edge a little bit maybe a little bit right across through
the middle area.
Don't go ahead and unselect out of this by switching back over toward marquee tool and clicking out
of that see how that looks.
It's going to zoom out and see great out looks a lot more like a reflective metal.
Now we want a second lache over here on this side of our book.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and select all these layers merge them together.
So now that's all one layer then holding down old and using my grabbing move to I can go ahead and drag
over a layer just like that and we'll just move it to here.
Then using my earpiece on my keyboard I can nudge this into place until I like the placement of it.
So I think right about there where the mood is actually really good.
So next what we want to do is we want to go ahead and add in our Gen now.
I think the quickest way to do this is to go ahead and grab the gem that we've already created and we're
going to change the color of this gold and we'll just bring it in here and place it on our book.
So I'm going to go ahead and find that folder.
So here's my folder for that right there.
And then I'm going to go ahead and merge my two layers that are making up this ring around it.
So when I right click merge layers then using the control you on my keyboard or command you if you're
on a Mac I'm going to go ahead and bring out the saturation so that it becomes more of a gray color
and I might even darken it just a little bit and darken it too to right about there.
And then I'm going to go ahead and hit OK then I'm going to go ahead and grab this folder right click
and I'm going to merge group.
So now that's all one layer.
Now I don't see this out.
Otherwise you're going to lose all those layers you had for this.
But just for this purpose.
I've merged it together so I can copy it and then I'm going to go ahead and paste it in here.
And using my transform to I can go and shrink that down.
First off.
So I want to shrink it down to about the size that I want so I don't want it too big.
So about there should be a good size then I'm in the right click and come to distort and then I can
go ahead and distort this like I did with the top surface of my book.
So going to distort it to about there.
Then I'll bring this corner up in this corner up a little bit so it's sort of at that same angle as
these lines.
I might actually bring that down just a tiny bit aren't great.
And I think this is actually pulled over too much so to pull these corners over because these lines
need to match with these outside edges and these bottom lines need to match with these bottom edges.
Then I'm going go ahead and hit enter.
Now this doesn't really look right because the gym is supposed to be three dimensional and so it looks
like it's actually been flagged.
So what we want to do is we're going to go ahead and work Argin.
So the way we'll do that is by coming back into here we're going to hit Control Z to undo our move.
And we might have to do that a couple of times.
So that way our gym becomes its own thing.
Once again we have all of our layers over here and our layers panel and we just want to find all the
layers that have to do with our gym.
And we're going to go ahead and merge them all together.
So all four of these layers merge them.
So now that is all one layer.
Now we can go ahead and select that then we'll go ahead and come back into our book and we'll paste
that in and what we want to do now is we want to go ahead and first off shrink this down.
So it's about the size of the genome we already have there.
So right about there should be good that we're going to Right-Click and we're going to distort just
like we did before and we wanted to distorted to about the same angle that we have here on top of our
book.
So right about there should do that we're going to Right-Click again and then come to work.
And we want to work this up a little bit so it has a little bit more of a bump.
So it looks more three dimensional we can pull down these bottoms so they stay in the correct position.
So something like this should work.
Keep working it until you get it looking the way you want.
I think that boat here should be good.
So now I can go ahead and hit enter now looks a little funny.
I can use my Arie's tool to erase the way this top area a little bit more just so it gets a better shape
in there.
But you should be getting the idea that by warping it you can go ahead and get more of a three dimensional
look down here at the bottom.
You'll notice that we see a little bit of the gem underneath it.
So what I'll do is I'm going go ahead and zoom in there and using my Bursch tool.
I'm going to go ahead and just paint it over that so you can no longer see that.
Great.
It's going to zoom out.
See how that looks.
Perfect.
Now I'm going to go ahead and merge all these layers together so that my GM is all on one layer and
using my grabbing move tool and the arrow keys on the keyboard.
I can go ahead and nubs this over into the position I want it.
So going to move it to right about there.
That brings us to the end of this election.
So in this lecture we went ahead and created these latches that go on the binding of our book and then
we created this gem.
Well we already created this gem previously but then we took it and we applied it to our book and made
it look a little bit more three dimensional in the next lecture.
We're going to finish up with the details by adding in more of an edge on this book cover maybe a few
scratches endings in here and we'll also go ahead and add in a few bookmarks and papers and maybe even
a ribbon bookmark hanging out of our book.
Thanks for watching.
And I'm really looking forward to seeing you in the next lecture.